quick_setup_guide.md, before:

# Quick Setup Guide for TerminalAI

## 1. Installation

You have two options to install TerminalAI:

**Option A: Install from PyPI (Recommended)**
```
pip install coaxial-terminal-ai
```

**Option B: Install from source**
```
git clone https://github.com/coaxialdolor/terminalai.git
cd terminalai
pip install -e .
```

## 2. Initial Configuration

In a terminal window, run:
```
ai setup
```

* Enter `5` to select "Setup API Keys"
* Select your preferred AI provider:
  * Mistral is recommended for its good performance and generous free tier limits
  * Ollama is ideal if you prefer locally hosted AI
  * You can also use OpenRouter or Gemini
* Enter the API key for your selected provider(s)
* Press Enter to return to the setup menu

## 3. Set Default Provider

* At the setup menu, select `1` to "Setup default provider"
* Choose a provider that you've saved an API key for
* Press Enter to return to the setup menu

## 4. Understanding Stateful Command Execution

For commands like `cd` or `export` that change your shell's state, TerminalAI
will offer to copy the command to your clipboard. You can then paste and run it.
This is the primary method for handling such commands.

**(Optional) Shell Integration for Advanced Users:**
* You can still install a shell integration via option `7` in the `ai setup` menu.
* This is for advanced users who might prefer a dedicated shell function.
* Note: The primary method is copy-to-clipboard, and TerminalAI no longer outputs the specific marker (`#TERMINALAI_SHELL_COMMAND:`) that this shell function traditionally relied on.

## 5. Start Using TerminalAI

You're now ready to use TerminalAI! Here's how:

**Direct Query with Quotes**
```
ai "how do I find all text files in the current directory?"
```

**Interactive Mode**
```
ai
AI: What is your question?
: how do I find all text files in the current directory?
```

**Running Commands**
* When TerminalAI suggests terminal commands, you'll be prompted:
  * For a single command: Enter `Y` to run or `N` to skip
  * For multiple commands: Enter the number of the command you want to run
  * For stateful (shell state-changing) commands like `cd` or `export`, you'll be prompted to copy them to your clipboard to run manually.

Commit message:

UNTESTED Implement seamless stateful command execution via ai shell integration and eval mode

quick_setup_guide.md, after:

# Quick Setup Guide for TerminalAI

## 1. Installation

You have two options to install TerminalAI:

**Option A: Install from PyPI (Recommended)**
```
pip install coaxial-terminal-ai
```

**Option B: Install from source**
```
git clone https://github.com/coaxialdolor/terminalai.git
cd terminalai
pip install -e .
```

## 2. Initial Configuration

In a terminal window, run:
```
ai setup
```

* Enter `5` to select "Setup API Keys"
* Select your preferred AI provider:
  * Mistral is recommended for its good performance and generous free tier limits
  * Ollama is ideal if you prefer locally hosted AI
  * You can also use OpenRouter or Gemini
* Enter the API key for your selected provider(s)
* Press Enter to return to the setup menu

## 3. Set Default Provider

* At the setup menu, select `1` to "Setup default provider"
* Choose a provider that you've saved an API key for
* Press Enter to return to the setup menu

## 4. Understanding Stateful Command Execution

There are now two ways to handle commands that change your shell's state (like `cd` or `export`):

### A. Seamless Execution via ai Shell Integration (Advanced/Recommended)

- Run `ai setup` and select option 7 to install the ai shell integration.
- This adds a shell function named `ai` to your shell config (e.g., `.zshrc` or `.bashrc`).
- After restarting your shell or sourcing your config, you can use `ai` as before:

```
ai "cd my_folder && export VAR=1"
```
- If you confirm the command, it will be executed in your current shell, and state changes will apply.
- If you cancel, nothing is executed.
- This works for Bash/Zsh. PowerShell support for seamless mode is not yet implemented.

### B. Copy to Clipboard (Default)

When TerminalAI suggests a stateful command, it will:
- Identify the command as stateful.
- Prompt you to copy the command to your clipboard (e.g., `[STATEFUL COMMAND] The command 'cd my_folder' changes shell state. Copy to clipboard to run manually? [Y/n]`).
- If you choose 'Y', the command is copied to your clipboard.
- You can then paste and run the command directly in your terminal.

## 5. Start Using TerminalAI

You're now ready to use TerminalAI! Here's how:

**Direct Query with Quotes**
```
ai "how do I find all text files in the current directory?"
```

**Interactive Mode**
```
ai
AI: What is your question?
: how do I find all text files in the current directory?
```

**Running Commands**
* When TerminalAI suggests terminal commands, you'll be prompted:
  * For a single command: Enter `Y` to run or `N` to skip
  * For multiple commands: Enter the number of the command you want to run
  * For stateful (shell state-changing) commands like `cd` or `export`, you'll be prompted to copy them to your clipboard to run manually.
