README.md, before:

# TerminalAI

TerminalAI is a command-line AI assistant designed to interpret user requests, suggest relevant terminal commands, and execute them interactively.

## Key Features
- Installable via pip, automatically adds itself to PATH for easy use
- Supports multiple AI providers: OpenRouter, Gemini, Mistral, and Ollama
- Interactive mode when run without arguments
- Intelligent command detection and execution flow
- Smart handling of factual vs. command-based questions
- Colored output with syntax highlighting for commands
- `ai setup` command with menu interface for configuration
- Shell integration for executing state-changing commands (cd, export, etc.)

## Installation

From the repository:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/coaxialdolor/terminalai.git
cd terminalai
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

### Interactive Mode
Simply run `ai` without arguments to enter interactive mode:
```sh
ai
AI: What is your question?
: how do I find all .txt files in this directory?
```

### Direct Query
```sh
ai "how do I find all .txt files in this directory?"
```

### Configuration
```sh
# Open the setup menu
ai setup

# Set a default provider directly
ai setup --set-default mistral

# Install shell integration for forbidden commands
ai setup --install-shell-integration
```

### Command Flags
```sh
# Auto-confirm commands (except risky ones)
ai -y "create a temporary folder"

# Request more detailed responses
ai -v "explain how grep works"

# Get longer, more comprehensive answers
ai -l "explain docker networking"
```

## Command Execution

When TerminalAI suggests commands:

1. **Single Command**: You'll be prompted with a Y/N confirmation
2. **Multiple Commands**: You'll choose which command to run by number
3. **Risky Commands**: Always require an additional confirmation
4. **Forbidden Commands**: Commands that change shell state (like `cd`) will be marked with a special marker

## Factual Questions vs. Commands

TerminalAI is designed to:
- Give direct factual answers to informational questions without suggesting commands
- Provide appropriate commands for task-based requests

Example:
```sh
ai "what is the capital of France?"
[AI] Paris

ai "how do I find files containing 'error' in this directory?"
[AI] 
╭─── Command ───╮
│ grep -r "error" . │
╰───────────────╯
```

## Running Forbidden Commands (cd, export, etc.)

Some commands change your shell state and cannot be run by a subprocess. TerminalAI marks these with:

```
#TERMINALAI_SHELL_COMMAND: cd myfolder
```

To execute these commands, you can either:

1. **Install shell integration** (recommended):
   ```sh
   ai setup --install-shell-integration
   ```
   
2. **Manually add** the following function to your `.bashrc` or `.zshrc`:
   ```sh
   run_terminalai_shell_command() {
     local cmd=$(history | grep '#TERMINALAI_SHELL_COMMAND:' | tail -1 | sed 's/.*#TERMINALAI_SHELL_COMMAND: //')
     if [ -n "$cmd" ]; then
       echo "[RUNNING in current shell]: $cmd"
       eval "$cmd"
     else
       echo "No TerminalAI shell command found in history."
     fi
   }
   ```

After you see a `#TERMINALAI_SHELL_COMMAND:` line, run:
```sh
run_terminalai_shell_command
```

## Supported AI Providers

TerminalAI supports the following providers:
- **OpenRouter** - Access to various models including GPT models
- **Mistral** - Efficient and powerful language models
- **Gemini** - Google's AI model
- **Ollama** - Run models locally

Configure your API keys through the setup menu:
```sh
ai setup
```

## Safety Features

- Commands are never executed without your explicit permission
- Risky commands (rm, chmod, etc.) require additional confirmation
- Shell state-changing commands are explicitly marked
- Safe subprocess execution for normal commands

## Help and Documentation

For detailed usage instructions and examples:
```sh
ai --help
```

Commit message:

Update README with installation options, quick setup guide, and disclaimer; increment version to 0.1.1 in setup.py; enhance terminalai_cli with quick setup instructions and about section.

README.md, after:

# TerminalAI

TerminalAI is a command-line AI assistant designed to interpret user requests, suggest relevant terminal commands, and execute them interactively.

## Key Features
- Installable via pip, automatically adds itself to PATH for easy use
- Supports multiple AI providers: OpenRouter, Gemini, Mistral, and Ollama
- Interactive mode when run without arguments
- Intelligent command detection and execution flow
- Smart handling of factual vs. command-based questions
- Colored output with syntax highlighting for commands
- `ai setup` command with menu interface for configuration
- Shell integration for executing state-changing commands (cd, export, etc.)

## Installation

### Option 1: Install from PyPI (Recommended)
```sh
pip install coaxial-terminal-ai
```

### Option 2: Install from source
```sh
git clone https://github.com/coaxialdolor/terminalai.git
cd terminalai
pip install -e .
```

## Quick Setup

See the [Quick Setup Guide](quick_setup_guide.md) for detailed instructions.

In brief:
1. Install TerminalAI
2. Run `ai setup` to configure your API keys
3. Set your default provider
4. Install shell integration (recommended)
5. Start using TerminalAI!

## Usage

### Interactive Mode
Simply run `ai` without arguments to enter interactive mode:
```sh
ai
AI: What is your question?
: how do I find all .txt files in this directory?
```

### Direct Query
```sh
ai "how do I find all .txt files in this directory?"
```

### Configuration
```sh
# Open the setup menu
ai setup

# Set a default provider directly
ai setup --set-default mistral

# Install shell integration for forbidden commands
ai setup --install-shell-integration
```

### Command Flags
```sh
# Auto-confirm commands (except risky ones)
ai -y "create a temporary folder"

# Request more detailed responses
ai -v "explain how grep works"

# Get longer, more comprehensive answers
ai -l "explain docker networking"
```

## Command Execution

When TerminalAI suggests commands:

1. **Single Command**: You'll be prompted with a Y/N confirmation
2. **Multiple Commands**: You'll choose which command to run by number
3. **Risky Commands**: Always require an additional confirmation
4. **Forbidden Commands**: Commands that change shell state (like `cd`) will be marked with a special marker

## Factual Questions vs. Commands

TerminalAI is designed to:
- Give direct factual answers to informational questions without suggesting commands
- Provide appropriate commands for task-based requests

Example:
```sh
ai "what is the capital of France?"
[AI] Paris

ai "how do I find files containing 'error' in this directory?"
[AI] 
╭─── Command ───╮
│ grep -r "error" . │
╰───────────────╯
```

## Running Forbidden Commands (cd, export, etc.)

Some commands change your shell state and cannot be run by a subprocess. TerminalAI marks these with:

```
#TERMINALAI_SHELL_COMMAND: cd myfolder
```

To execute these commands, you can either:

1. **Install shell integration** (recommended):
   ```sh
   ai setup --install-shell-integration
   ```
   
2. **Manually add** the following function to your `.bashrc` or `.zshrc`:
   ```sh
   run_terminalai_shell_command() {
     local cmd=$(history | grep '#TERMINALAI_SHELL_COMMAND:' | tail -1 | sed 's/.*#TERMINALAI_SHELL_COMMAND: //')
     if [ -n "$cmd" ]; then
       echo "[RUNNING in current shell]: $cmd"
       eval "$cmd"
     else
       echo "No TerminalAI shell command found in history."
     fi
   }
   ```

After you see a `#TERMINALAI_SHELL_COMMAND:` line, run:
```sh
run_terminalai_shell_command
```

## Supported AI Providers

TerminalAI supports the following providers:
- **OpenRouter** - Access to various models including GPT models
- **Mistral** - Efficient and powerful language models
- **Gemini** - Google's AI model
- **Ollama** - Run models locally

Configure your API keys through the setup menu:
```sh
ai setup
```

## Safety Features

- Commands are never executed without your explicit permission
- Risky commands (rm, chmod, etc.) require additional confirmation
- Shell state-changing commands are explicitly marked
- Safe subprocess execution for normal commands

## Disclaimer

**TerminalAI is provided as-is without any warranties. Use at your own risk.**

The developers of TerminalAI cannot be held responsible for:
- Data loss
- System damage
- Any other adverse effects resulting from executing commands suggested by the AI

Always review commands before executing them, especially those that modify system files or can potentially delete data. The AI assistant makes its best effort to provide appropriate commands, but it may not always suggest the optimal or safest solution for your specific environment.

## Help and Documentation

For detailed usage instructions and examples:
```sh
ai --help
```
